.\"-
.\" Copyright (c) 2017 BBC
.\"
.\"  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.\"  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"  You may obtain a copy of the License at
.\"
.\"      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.\"
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.\"  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.\"  limitations under the License.
.\"
.TH S3CAT 1
.SH NAME
s3cat \-\- print contents of a single Amazon S3 object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B s3cat
[\fB\-adekhrstv\fR]
.I s3uri
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B s3cat
print to the standard output the contents of an object specified by the bucket and key in an S3 URI.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.BR s3uri
A URI of the form \fBs3://\fR[\fIACCESS-KEY\fB:\fISECRET-KEY\fB@\fR]\fIBUCKET\fB/\fIOBJECT-KEY\fR[\fB?\fIPARAMS\fR] where
.BR BUCKET
is an S3 bucket identifier,
.BR OBJECT-KEY
is the key identifying an S3 object that exists within that bucket, and
.BR PARAMS
is an ampersand-delimited list of \fIkey\fB=\fIvalue\fR pairs.
URIs with ampersands in them will need to be double-quoted in the shell.
Allowed query parameters, which can be provided in any order and whose values are described in the OPTIONS section, are:
.IP ""
.BI endpoint= HOSTNAME
.IP ""
.BI region= REGION
.IP ""
.BI token= TOKEN
.IP ""
.BI ver= AUTHVER
.SH OPTIONS
Option flags can be provided in any order.
If an option is provided more than once, the final one wins.
.TP
.BR \-h
Print usage information to stdout, then exit.
.TP
.BR \-d
Log debug information to stderr.
.TP
.BR \-a " " \fIACCESS-KEY\fR
Specify an AWS access key, a 20-character string beginning with AKIA.
.TP
.BR \-s " " \fISECRET-KEY\fR
Specify an AWS secret key, a 40-character base-64-encoded string.
.TP
.BR \-r " " \fIREGION\fR
Specify an AWS region identifier, such as \fBeu-west-1\fR.
This option implies \fB-v4\fR and \fB-e s3-\fIREGION\fB.amazonaws.com\fR.
.TP
.BR \-k " " \fIOBJECT-KEY\fR
Override the object key in the \fIs3uri\fR argument.
Note that object keys do not begin with a slash (/).
.TP
.BR \-e " " \fIHOSTNAME\fR
Override the default S3 endpoint.
If no \fB-e\fR or \fB-r\fR option is given, the endpoint s3.amazonaws.com is used.
.TP
.BR \-t " " \fITOKEN\fR
Specify the session token (implies \fB-v4\fR).
.TP
.BR \-v " " \fIAUTHVER\fR
Specify the AWS authentication version (\fB2\fR or \fB4\fR).
By default, version 2 will be used unless a \fIREGION\fR or \fITOKEN\fR are given.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B "s3cat -a AKIATHISISMYKEY -s ""53kr17/k3y6035h3R3"" -r eu-west-1 s3://my-bucket/path/to/file.txt"
Print to the standard output the contents of the object identified by the key "path/to/file.txt" in the bucket "my-bucket" which resides in the eu-west-1 region, as authorized by the provided access key and secret key. As a region has been specified, this will use v4 authentication (HMAC-SHA256) and the s3-eu-west-1.amazonaws.com endpoint.
.TP
.B "s3cat s3://AKIATHISISMYKEY:53kr17%2Fk3y6035h3R3@my-bucket/path/to/file.txt?region=eu-west-1"
An alternative way to perform the same request.
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
Amazon AWS CLI documentation for the S3 service: <http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/reference/s3/>
.SH BUGS
Send any bug reports to <mailto:resbbc@bbc.co.uk> or raise a ticket at <https://github.com/bbcarchdev/libawsclient>.
